# PBPL010: Exercise 2


## Deadline

- Hand in your work on [ilearn](https://ilearn.ucr.edu) by **April 26 2 p.m.**


## Objectives
- Learn how to complete table joins to add attributes
- Creation of new attributes using expressions
- Filtering attributes
- Virtual layers for query presentations

## Instructions

### Setup
- You will be using the same dataset from [exercise 1](https://github.com/sjsrey/pbpl010s21/raw/main/docsrc/data/tract_boundary_scag_2010.zip)
- Create a new project called `exer02`

### Analysis
#### Joins and Attribute Creation
1. Using a table join, attach a new attribute with the name `CountyName` that uses the `COUNTY` as the field to match on.
2. Create an attribute named `pctHISP` that reports the percentage of the tract's total population that is Hispanic.
3. Create an attribute named `pctNHBLK` that reports the percentage of the tract's total population that is non-Hispanic Black.
4. Create an attribute named `majHISP` that takes a value of 1 if the `pctHISP` is greater than 0.50.
4. Create an attribute named `majNHBLK` that takes a value of 1 if the `pctNHBLK` is greater than 0.50.

#### Layer creation
1. Create a layer that contains the tracts where `majHISP` takes a value of 1. Name this layer `majHISP`
2. Create a layer that contains the tracts where `majNHBLK` takes a value of 1. Name this layer `majNHBLK`
3. Upload a screen shot that shows the map canvas with the two new layers on top of the original project layer.
4. Comment on the spatial distribution displayed in  the `majHISP` and `majNHBLK` layers.

#### Virtual Layers
The next steps require building  different virtual layers to generate  table reports:
1. Report the number of tracts by county.
2. Report the number of majority Hispanic tracts by county
3. Report the percentage of majority Hispanic tracts by county
4. Report the percentage of the total county population that is Hispanic by county.
5. Compare the previous percentage to the average of the Hispanic population by tract in each county.
6. Comment on the last report. Why do the two views of percentage Hispanic differ?
